If you need to replicate a UNF:3 for a Stata or SPSS data
set, please follow these steps: 

Download the DSB rpm version 1.4-2, archived on SourceForge
at 

https://sourceforge.net/projects/dvn/files/dvn-dsb/1.4/DVN-DSB-1.4-2.noarch.rpm/download

Install the R package UNF:3 that comes with the DSB rpm
above:

R CMD INSTALL -l <R_ROOT_DIRECTORY>/library /usr/local/VDC/R/UNF_1.16.tar.gz

<R_ROOT_DIRECTORY> above is the location of the R
installation root on your system. For example, on a 64 bit
RedHat Linux system this will be /usr/lib64/R. 
/usr/local/VDC/R/UNF_1.16.tar.gz is the location of the
source R package in the DVN DSB distribution.

Run the appropriate converter script on your data file:
readdta.pl, readpor.pl or and readsav.pl for the Stata,
SPSS/por and SPSS/sav file formats respectively.

This will produce an XML file in the DDI fromat with the
UNFs for the individual variables and the combined UNF for
the datafile.

---

A note on the UNF:3 implementation:


It was discovered that the UNF:3 implementation was affected
by certain behavior that was language-specific and/or
operated on data object in non-canonical forms. There are at
least 2 known examples: handling of Date and Time objects by
R; and drop in precision and rounding of floating point
values while the data values were extracted from the Stata
files. (see the documentation file
UNF3_Implementation_Details.txt for more information). All
the UNF signatures generated in the DVN <2.0 relied on that
implementation. For this reason we strongly recommend that
when it is necessary to replicate UNF:3, the preserved DVN
UNF:3 software (above) is used, to achieve the result that
is guaranteed to be identical.

